---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Love, Hate and Javascript
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-08-31
labels:
  - Java Script
  - Proramming Languages
---

The timeless confusion between Java and Javascript.  Usually the first thing asked by family members when the discussion of my schooling comes up around Christmas or Thanksgiving,"Ooohh is that the same thing as Javascript?" I am fortunate enough to be the only one in my immediate family who knows anything about computer science, so this question is always proceeded by numerous accounts of "Why my windows won't run" and "I can't get it to turn on" type conversations.  Until now, I knew Javascript and Java were different, the only question was how.

## My understanding of JavaScript
Javascript compared to Java is the definition of the icebreg example, with Javascript representing the tip.  So far, Javascript has been much easier and simpler to learn, there seem to be far less commands to memorize and the few one needs to know are applicable  throughout the code's structure.  So far I have learned much more streamlined methods of traversing through arrays, designating objects and accessing data within said objects.  After these first impressions, despite Javascript being unable to stand on its own like Java can, I really enjoy programming with it.  It doesn't need to be compiled into machine language first in order to run, it is extremely easy to understand and it is infinitely faster(to program with) and more freeform than Java. 

## Athletic Software Engineering
Personally, I love this style of teaching.  In high school, my AP English teachers ran a similar program.  Every Wednesday, for both Junior and Senior year, we would recieve a "timed write" to complete.  This meant that in 45 minutes, based on the prompt and attached documents, we would have to construct a 5 paragraph essay complete with a proper intro, three body paragraphs and a conclusion.  While this was terrifying and awfully difficult at first, it was all in preparation for the AP tests at the end of the year.  There was a common goal which we students were all practising towards.  When the AP test came around and we were asked to write three complete essays in just two hours, it was nothing more than routine.  There were no tears, no nervous sweating: we were ready.  I equate this to the WODs we just began in class, and I can't wait to see how they condition and prepare me for my future in software engineering.

 
